---
layout: post
title: Data Scientist Vs Statisticians
---

After reading the "Data Science articles," I think being a Data scientist is about using data to improve a product. Data Scientists mostly deals with data collecting, analyzing and modeling. It’s a study of where data originates, what it represents, and how it could be transformed into a valuable resource. The major duties by a data scientist is to find answers for questions and to solve problems utilizing data. For example; According to Andrew Zola, "When a business needs to answer a question or solve a problem, they turn to a data scientist to gather, process, and derive valuable insights from the data. Whenever data scientists are hired by an organization, they will explore all aspects of the business and develop programs using programming languages like Java to perform robust analytics. They will also use online experiments along with other methods to help businesses achieve sustainable growth. Additionally, they can develop personalized data products to help companies better understand themselves and their customers to make better business decisions." The major Knowledge needed for data scientists focuses on the statistical analysis and it's applications, computer science and mathmatics.
When it comes to differences/similarities between data scientists and statisticians, i adopt the same view as ODSCJournal where the writer made it clear that both fields complete each other, "What’s intriguing about the field of data science is its perceived threat to other disciplines, specifically statistics. I don’t see this threat as real however as the two fields are quite distinct and complementary. In the past decade, it’s clear that though the two fields can exist separately on their own, each is weak without the other. Statisticians need to understand the modeling and structure of data, while data scientists need to understand applied statistics". Statisticians deal with concepts like point estimates, margins of error, confidence intervals, standard errors, p-values, hypothesis testing, and the proverbial argument between the “frequentists” and “Bayesians.” 
On the other hand, Data scientists follow the “data science process" that is more approachable; data ingest, data transformation, exploratory data analysis, model selection, model evaluation, and data storytelling. However, note should be taken that none of these could be accomplished without the knowledge of Statistics which will leave us to conclude that Statistics is the basic foundation to become a Data Scientist. Personally, i can view myself succeeding as a data scientist more than as a statistician probably because i'm more of a practical person where i like to apply what i learned in statistics and make usage of it. I always have the curiosity to gather answers for certain questions. 
